# *World Happiness Data Visualization Set (Jess Lilly)*

	The Global World Happiness Ranking Gallup publishes yearly is based on a single data indicator: life ladder scores determined through something known as the Cantril Index. The Cantril Index is used to rank countries in terms of happiness. Countries are ranked in based on survey responses to a single question: “Please imagine a ladder, with steps numbered from 0 at the bottom to 10 at the top. The top of the ladder represents the best possible life for you and the bottom of the ladder represents the worst possible life for you. On which step of the ladder would you say you personally feel you stand at this time?” Countries are ranked by mean life ladder score, with the highest score denoting the happiest country globally, and the lowest score denoting the least happy country globally. I am interested in investigating the validity of the Cantril Index in determining the happiness of a country.
    
	I grew up in Germany, but my first understandings of the United States were shaped though the narrative of my American parents. I was told that the US was the “strongest country in the world” “the freest country in the world” and that I was lucky to be an American. With so many apparent social and economic assets, the United States should fall pretty high up the happiness ladder, and indeed, the United States does. The United States is admittedly not the pinnacle of happiness on Gallup’s scale, but at x/x, the United States still fall in the top x% of countries worldwide.
    
	But as I grew older, I was exposed to a German perspective on American life — the rest of the world doesn’t see Americans as being as lucky or successful as the narrative my parents fed me as a child would suggest. To the outsider America can seem sad, judgmental, dangerous, and divided. In fact, the American way of life is so seemingly tumultuous and fascinating that what happens in America populates German media almost as much as what happens in Germany. For many Germans, observing the American way of life seems like a guilty pleasure that I would equate to rubbernecking a train wreck. The day Donald Trump was elected president, a German radio station sent reporters into my international school classroom to interview “Die Amerikaner,” the Americans.  For the next hour we answered questions about what it felt like to be an American on the heels of Trump’s election. Our subsequent narrative provided mild morning entertainment for middle-aged businessmen on their way to work as we privately contemplated setting our passports on fire. Two years later every single one of us started college in Europe, many turning in American citizenship for German citizenship because of how we saw ourselves as higher up on the Cantril ladder in Europe than in the United States. 
    
	Now, I don’t say this to imply that Germany is perfect or that the Unites States is inherently a bad country. A simple glance in a history book will reveal that Germany has a host of its own problems, many of which have had long-lasting social and cultural consequences that continue to negatively affect the country; and in my 16 months in the States I have had plenty of experiences that have made me glad that I did not, in fact, set my American passport on fire; however, my  empirical observation of the dichotomy between how Americans perceive America, and how the rest of the world sees the United States makes me question the validity of the Cantril ladder as a measure of happiness.
	How are we supposed to objectively compare our lives to the lives of the rest of the world? Does thinking we are better off than the rest of the world really mean we are happier, or does it just make us think we are comparatively less miserable? Most of us learn about the rest of the world through the knowledge we glean from sensationalized news stories, fictional and reality TV, and, if we’re lucky, limited travel experience to highly specific tourist locations like likely capitalize on the glorification of other culture as a more primitive “other” to make us feel better about our own position. 
	
    Now let’s say the Cantril ladder has validity. As the World Happiness Index gains popularity and media coverage, can the Cantril ladder continue to have relevance? Finland has received the top spot in the happiness index for the last 4 years running. While I don’t speak Finnish or frequent Finnish news cites, if I could hazard a guess I would say that Finland’s status as the happiest country in the world probably made local news. Let’s say you live in Finland. You’ve read articles and seen news stories about Finland’s status as the happiest country in the world. You receive phone call from Gallup world poll asking you to place your life position relative to the rest of the world. Wouldn’t you be inclined to place yourself high on the ladder? Sure, you may be miserable, but misery is relative, so what’s to say the rest rest of the world isn’t just more miserable? After all, data says you live in the happiest country in the world.
    
	Maybe I’m being cynical, but I’m very skeptical of Gallup World Happiness Rankings after reading up on the ranking methodology. Thus, I am interested in exploring other potential indicators of happiness (and misery) to gain a better understanding of whether the Gallup World Happiness Ranking are really measuring happiness, or just perceived happiness.
	I will be looking at the correlation between the Gallup World Happiness Ranking and suicide rates, depression rates, anxiety rates, and emotional wellbeing of the countries included in our dataset.
    
	I will further attempt to find data about different media styles, freedoms, and narratives globally. I am very interested to see if there is a correlation between the types of media narratives people consume about their country, and their perceived happiness.

